
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

Everything in your architecture diagram is present, good job !

The diagram is of good quality, but please be careful with the direction of the arrows. We did not penalize you for that but it is not clear how the double arrows work.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

You are using the google login, which is a secure way of handling authentication.

We didn't find any leaked API key, or secret  in your project, nice work !

You didn't ask for any permission that wasn't needed on the user's phone.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Your wireframe/mockup are really good-looking, nice work ! 

They represent well your app and its functionnalities, good job!

The mockup is pleasent to use and we can see that you've put a lot of effor into it. As a small advice, some buttons on the navbar get deactivated depending on the page you are currently on.

For this part, you received 15 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

The style and UI of your App is well choosed and everything is consistent

When rotating the phone, we weren't able to log in and some of the content was hidden. Please make your UI responsive. (This can be done with lazy columns and sizes in % of the screen)

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Your CI seems to be running properly with sonar included in the process.

Your main branch has passed the check of your CI when being merged, good job !

Your CI is running all of your test without any issue.

You achieved more than 80% of line coverage, good performance ! Try to keep that as is during the next sprints 

Each of your screens has some relevant corresponding tests, well done !

We could not find any tests for your "MessageFirestoreSource.kt" repository

We didn't find any viewmodels in your project, all the code was placed inside the screens, which you should avoid and change as soon as possible.

It's good that you managed to create an end to end test, but for next milestone, we'd like you to have a mock of the DB and not the firestore instance

For this part, you received 32 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

No issues with the CI building the APK, good job !

No issues were encountered when installing the app on my phone and lauching it

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

Minor bugs found in your app:
- When I type text in the ISBN textfield, no text is displayed
- The "add your book" page has no data type checks for the fields (I can enter a letter in the rating)
- Somme buttons do not trigger any actions on the app, which you should avoid. (At least a toast telling that the feature is not available)

No major bugs were found in the app, congratulations !

No crashes were encountered in the app, congratulations !

For this part, you have been penalized -3 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

The team retrospective sheets were completed on time !

The standup minute sheets were completed on time !

All the sheets were nicely filled ! The team building is a good idea

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

The choice of your user stories represents well your app and make a good product backlog !

Your EPICs are well represented by your user stories

Your EPICs are well represented by your user stories

Your sprint backlog for sprint 3 is coherent and up to date !

Your choice of task name in the sprint backlog is clear, good work !

All students have tasks assigned to them, good job !

All students have tasks assign to them, good job !

Not all the tasks in your sprint backlog have estimated hours, please add them when creating them. 

A lot of tasks in your sprint backlog don't have any priority assigned, please add them when creating them.

Your scrumboard is up to date for your third sprint, congratulations !

For this part, you received 16 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 5.50. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
