# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.


**App requirements**
You have implemented the code for the offline mode, you also support multiple users and authentication. You use a cloud service and you use the GPS well within the MAP as well as the pictures with the camera. Great job! However, as you will see below, we did not succeed in testing the offline mode. Please take a look at the *APK Functionality and Performance* section.

**Epics implementation**
You have implemented multiple epics which is good. They bring strong value to the app and the features implemented are useful. Good job on that!

**Features complexity and completeness**
For a certain reason, most of the features were not working so we cannot consider the features to be complete or robust. Please take a look at the *APK Functionality and Performance* section.


For this part, you received 6.4 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


**APK functionality and performance**
We have tested your APK and we encountered the following problems:
- The app should represent the release state of the app so you should clean the database to avoid having books named "Test" or "hsjzzzz". 
- The app kept on crashing for one of the coaches' phone. One assumption is that the app is not compatible with all Android versions which should not be the case since it should crash only for some screens that require certain specific features. So we used another phone to test the APK.
- Also, in the welcome page, when the user starts writing, the text color is almost white and we cannot really see what is it we're writing.
- When trying to create without filling all fields, we're told to correct the errors but no errors are shown on the form. It was only shown after clicking random input boxes.
- When going on the map, we're redirected in the middle of the ocean, then we need to click on repositioning to get our position. A more intuitive way is to start on the user's location from the start. That was the case in the first phone.
- In the profile page, the profile picture is not adapted to its frame. There is also a loading icon that runs infinitely and we're not sure what it represents exactly.
 - When taking a picture, if you're waiting for it to load, you should at least make the "Edit Profile Picture" component disappear to show the user that it is loading.
-When checking the profile of another user, the address displayed switches between the actual address of the user and "Addres not available"
- When clicking on the back button in "Messages", it does not do anything and sometimes it returns back to random pages.
- There is no button "Save" in "Add your book" page so we cannot add new books
- The "Add book from ISBN" page displays the name "new_book_isbn_screen"
- After sending messages, they don't appear in the "Messages" screen
Overall, the APK was not functioning very well. There were many features that were not complete or did not behave as expected which is a shame.
- The offline more is not really testable since we cannot add the books and we cannot see the messages. However, the map is shown correctly as well as the books in that screen.

**App resilience**
The app handles well edge cases and unexpected inputs as you do not accept them, which is very good. You should however try to show the user exactly where the inputs are wrong directly.

**Account management**
The app has multi-user support. Users can create and manage accounts, which is good. We did not succeed in testing the interaction between the users like messages but we can see other users' profile which is already good.



For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


The texts are almost in white which makes it hard to know what is written. However, the icons and texts are helpful to know what each section is for. 


For this part, you received 1.2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.


You use C.kt, strings.xml and follow well the MVVM architecture. The documentation is mostly good in all files but missing in some. The code is mostly modular and follows good coding conventions and best practices. Good job on that.


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


**Tests**
The line coverage of the project is of 83.3% which is good ! 
The new end-to-end tests are the following:
- EditProfileAndBooksEndToEnd: The dummy data should be put in a dummy file as said in previous feedbacks. The test is good nevertheless.
- NavigationBarEndToEnd: This is not really an end to end test as it only switches between the screens. An end to end test is supposed to represent a user flow so other actions should be made in those screens. This can be considered as a normal test to test the navigation bar.


**Repo setup and CI Pipeline**
Your CI pipeline is well-implemented as it includes code analysis, tests, APK generation and formatting. Good job on that.
The architecture of the code repo can be more consistent. For example, for the model, some files were in their corresponding folders, while others were in the model folder directly.


For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


**README and GitHub Wiki**
A README and the Wiki should be there to include detailed description of the app's architecture, feature implementaton and development setups. That way, if new members of the team want to join the project, they can easily continue the development process.

**Figma and Architecture Diagram**
Your Figma is really well-made and corresponds well to the current UI of the app. But there are some interactions that are missing in the behavioural side like accessing the user profile on the book mark or the "Edit profile" page.
The architecture diagram is well made but as in M2, there are different colors for the arrows so it would be nice to know what they correspond to.


For this part, you received 2.7 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


The team shows great independance. The team is self-sufficient and effectively managing the Scrum process independently. Great job on that aspect !


For this part, you received 2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 4.80.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.